# ALWAYS ON - 8

<!-- TOC -->
- [AKV Secrets --> AKS Pod Env Vars](#azure-key-vault-secrets----azure-kubernetes-service-pod-environment-variables)
<!-- /TOC -->

## AZURE KEY VAULT SECRETS --> AZURE KUBERNETES SERVICE POD ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

Workloads should not have secrets or other configuration values in source code or other insecure storage.

Azure Key Vault is used to store Secrets. These are synced to AKS pods, ultimately accessible in a filesystem mount location and as environment variables. Among other benefits, this allows .NET services to retrieve configuration values with the built-in Configuration provider, which by default checks environment variables in addition to other configuration sources.

The FE and BE workloads read the environment variables. This allows the workloads to function similarly in a local dev environment as well as in containers running in AKS pods.

The [Tooling and References docs](04.tooling-refs.md) has specific links to documentation which details the configuration process to allow AKV secrets to be made available as AKS pod environment variables.

To update what is retrieved from AKV and synced to pods:

- Update [/src/infra-deploy/secretprovider.ao.akv.yaml](src/infra-deploy/aks/secretprovider.ao.akv.yaml) and add the correct secret names in both _secretobjects_ and _objects_ sections. The _objects_ section makes secrets available in the file system mount (/mnt/secrets-store), and the _secretobjects_ section makes the secrets available as Kubernetes secrets, which in turn are then exposed as environment variables. Deploy this updated manifest to your cluster.
  - NOTE!! The infra.config.region.yml workflow writes two required values into this YAML file. If you are running from the command line with kubectl, you MUST manually add two values, `tenantId` and `keyVaultName` to the file before applying the manifest.
- Update [/.github/workflows/infra.config.region.yml](/.github/workflows/infra.config.region.yml). Change the action that writes secrets to the regional AKV as needed (e.g. add new secrets).
- Update the workload manifests [back end](/src/workload-deploy/aks/ao.be.yaml) and [front end](/src/workload-deploy/aks/ao.fe.yaml) with the secret changes. Deploy these updated manifests to your cluster.
  - NOTE!! The app.deploy.yml workflow writes a required value into this YAML file. If you are running from the command line with kubectl, you MUST manually add the value for `aadpodidbinding` to the file before applying the manifest. At this time, the binding defaults to $UAMI_NAME-binding (e.g. pz-ao-eastus-binding). The binding name appears to be internally set, with the binding ID specified in this file being a reference to the aadpodidentitybinding object.
- Run infra.config.region, then app.deploy.
- You should now be able to shell to a workload pod, ls or cat the filesystem mounted secret store values, and echo the environment variables successfully.

How to shell to a pod:
`kubectl exec --stdin --tty YOUR_POD_ID -- /bin/bash`

How to get a pod ID:
`kubectl get pods`
and copy the correct pod's ID from the list.

[Return to Main README and Table of Contents](../../README.md)