# ALWAYS ON - 1

<!-- TOC -->
- [Postman/Newman](#scenario)
<!-- /TOC -->

## TESTING

System performance metrics to measure:

- Transactions per second, measured as how many total requests per second the system accepts
- Latency, measured as response time from start to finish of a request
- Availability, measured as percent of time the system accepts requests

## POSTMAN/NEWMAN

[Postman](https://www.postman.com) is a popular API testing tool. Newman is the Postman CLI tool.

Requests test individual APIs. Collections organize Requests into runnable/automatable artifacts.

Each of the three APIs in the system is tested by a separate Postman request. Each request is stored in its own Postman collection. This is so that multiple independent Newman runners can simultaneously test the different APIs. The Newman runner requires a parameter for a collection to run, hence the collection-level separation.

Three modalities of Postman/Newman testing are provided in this repo:

1. [Postman collections containing the respective requests, and a Postman environment file](/tools/postman). These can be loaded into the Postman desktop tool, or run from the command line with Newman. **NOTE** you MUST modify the environment file and provide a correct Azure Front Door endpoint from your environment.
2. [Running Newman with Docker](https://learning.postman.com/docs/running-collections/using-newman-cli/newman-with-docker/). Using the Postman/Newman Docker image, you can run Newman from any Docker environment (e.g. Docker Desktop, Kubernetes, etc.). See [the sample script that uses the postman/newman Docker container](../../tools/postman/newman_docker.sh) to run against each of the three APIs.
3. Github Actions workflows that run Newman in an automated pipeline. [test.newman.get-profile.yml](/.github/workflows/test.newman.get-profile.yml), [test.newman.post-profile.yml](/.github/workflows/test.newman.post-profile.yml), and [test.newman.post-progress.yml](/.github/workflows/test.newman.post-progress.yml) are provided for individual tests. [test.newman.combined.yml](/.github/workflows/test.newman.combined.yml) is also provided and runs all tests at the same time via Github matrix strategy.

[Return to Main README and Table of Contents](../../README.md)